# Fly on the Wall Write Up

A common thread running through all of the observations my partner and I made over the course of the week was a clear divide between students of different grades in various contexts. One of the most basic components of an individual’s identity at a school is their grade. Given that the project theme this year is “facilitating community action,” it is important that we ensure users across grades are able to communicate, cooperate, and understand each other. But various observations around the Horace Mann community indicate that this is not currently the reality. For example, one key observation I made in Katz Library was that students tend to sit in separate areas of the space based on grade. The juniors dominate the computer space, seniors sit on the other end of the library at the desks, and sophomores tend to sit in the quiet zone upstairs. The freshmen squeeze in wherever they can. Another similar observation was on the field, where freshmen and juniors tend to occupy the soccer goals while seniors play volleyball in different areas. In Lutnick Hall, students sit at small tables and study together––but that setting was divided by grade as well. In these spaces, I also made several observations about potential problems, one being the Lost and Found outside the library. Although many people use the library, the Lost and Found is placed in a somewhat overlooked position to the side of the entrance, and not many people look at it when entering. Coupled with the fact that Lost and Found emails have been discontinued and the absence of a website listing lost items, and you have a service that not many students seem to be using. This is why there always seem to be so many unclaimed lost items.

Breaking down the situation in the library with the AEIOU framework was useful. The environment of the library is very much in the vein of the Roman forum (it has even been referred to as such by students), with individuals usually completing schoolwork in a casual, friendly setting. The library is organized by objects such as desks, chairs, and computers, with some choosing to flout these conventions and sit on the floor or window sills instead. I would group this kind of environment with Lutnick Hall, where students sit at tables in a medium-quiet setting to get work done. I mostly divided users by grade, but other factors exist as well. For example, students who tend to procrastinate or study less don’t use the library or Lutnick for studying; instead, they mostly socialize or engage in non-academic activities (web browsing, etc.) in those spaces. The key issue through all of this that I identified is that students across grades don’t seem to have a lot of interactions in these spaces, creating additional challenges for community action.

For this project, I worked with Santi Simonian to collect observations around the school. Our process was one of division––breaking up elements in each area by environment purpose, objects in the environment, and users. In this lab, I learned how to methodically look for problems in an area by breaking the process into separate parts. I also learned the usefulness of having a framework like “community action” to work with when searching for issues, because that narrows the scope of what needs to be observed and what kinds of observations are useful. 
