# The Need for Cross-Grade Social Spaces at HM

The lack of informal interaction between students of different grades is a common problem that I have observed in various contexts. I think other classmates have noticed this issue too, but it is important to note that students across grades do interact in very specific spaces––in classrooms such as our own App Development class, or in club meetings during I period, just to give a few examples. But I do think that freshmen, for instance, for the most part lack a social connection to upperclassmen or to students in any other grade for that matter. Most interactions between older and younger students are limited to a mentor-mentee style relationship that creates hierarchies and power dynamics in other spaces. 

I think a fundamental mistake the school makes is that they consider the mentor-mentee type interaction between students of different grades to be an example of a healthy social dynamic. For example, the school has created a mandatory “HM Orientation” (HMO) class for freshmen in which juniors and seniors are recruited to teach the ninth graders about the details of high school life. This class seems to not only exist to teach the freshmen, but also to give them an opportunity to build close bridges with older students. While some close relationships may result from HMO, for the most part it preserves and even exacerbates the asymmetric power dynamic between older and younger students. This is not to say such spaces don’t have any benefits, or don’t serve a useful purpose; it merely points out that students need a space exclusively for socialization with kids from other grades. 

Uneven power dynamics also manifested themselves in my observations from the Fly on the Wall activity. For example, in the library, seniors, juniors, and freshmen/sophomores occupy their own very distinct zones, and there isn’t much mixing because the library is inherently a social space; no adults or formal institutions are forcing any interactions between students of different grades. I think the solution to this stark grade-based, natural segregation in various spaces is to have some kind of organized outlet for socialization between grades. Beyond clubs and publications, the school offers the potential for many kinds of social interactions between various students; the spikeball nets and the cafeteria are just a few examples of spaces where students can socialize and have fun together. I believe there has to be some sort of concerted effort to organize students from across grades in a non-academic setting to bond; authentic community engagement and action can only thrive once students are given a reason to meet kids from other grades on equal footing.
